---
layout: post
title: "My Guix contribution journal - 0x02"
date: 2026-04-05 18:00:00 -3000
categories: guix
---

## Introduction

Well, it's been a while xD
Since my last entry a lot has changed, so let's cut to the chase!

## Docker 

The majority of my contributions to Guix has been packaging Docker's dependencies.
We keep the progress in this [Milestone](https://codeberg.org/guix/guix/milestone/30347) created by Hellseher.
I submit my contributions in batches of about 20 packages each and, until now, I've submitted 7 batches, totalizing
92 commits, the most recent one being the PR [#7580](https://codeberg.org/guix/guix/pulls/7580).

As I commented in [my first journal entry](../../../2025/05/17/first-contact-guix.html), Guix is a source based distribution.
So its package repository is actually a set of package recipes (also called package definitions)
that describes how to compile a given software.
In this way, to "package" a software, I need to write its package recipe and
submit it to the [Guix git repository](https://codeberg.org/guix/guix).
Each recipe is submitted as a commit.

Fortunaly, there is a tool, namely `guix import`, to help write this package definitions.
So the first thing I did was to run `guix import go --recursive github.com/moby/moby`.
The command `guix import go` fetches data from a given package (in this case, `github.com/moby/moby`) and
produces its recipe and the flag `--recursive` calls `guix import` for each unpackaged dependency of the target project recursively.
In this way, after a very long time fetching all the necessary data, `guix import` generated a **very huge** file containing all the recipes!

The next step is to find a recipe in this file which has all dependencies already packaged,
test if it actually compiles (remember that some tests from the upstream package may fail) and submit it to guix.

This process is very tiresome and unmotivating:
* It is tiresome just because the amount of packages in the generated file is overwhelming and the dependency graph
makes it a mess to choose a package to work with.

* It is *specially* unmotivating, because this generated file doesn't explain to you the context of each package.
To better ilustrate this point, let me draw an example: In the third batch,
I package `go-github-com-tonistiigi-go-csvvalue`, a Go library to read csv values.
*Why in the hell would Docker use it? Even if indirectly? How does this package fit in the dependency graph?*
I mean, I know *some* packages depend on in, I can find them in the generated file, but theses others packages
are also os disconnected from the ideia of Docker that it seems a waste of time to package them.

It is not enough to aimlessly work on this packages.
I had to organize myself in a way to keep my focus and motivation!

I'll write a dedicated post about it, because I really think it deserves a post by itself and
because I'm already kind of tired of writing xD 

## Getting into the Guix's Go team

After some batches, I wanted to contribute something other than a package definition.
So I decided to pick the bug [#3968](https://codeberg.org/guix/guix/issues/3968) to fix!

Since I wasn't in a team, Hellseher couldn't assign the issue to me,
so [he asked me to join the Go team](https://codeberg.org/guix/guix/issues/3968#issuecomment-10360372)!

I was very happy with this and commited my named into the `teams.scm` file and created a PR.
After that, the Hellseher
merged my [commit adding me to the Go team](https://codeberg.org/guix/guix/commit/78b685f258505e10f99bb0bb89e73301cd2459d5).

I'll write a post about this bug once I fix it!

## Conclusion

I'm very happy with my progress contributions in the Guix community! :D
